[Music]
each year over 4,000 Americans need a
heart transplant but only half of them
will get one and even if they do there's
a high risk that their body will reject
the new heart because their immune
system may start a campaign against the
alien cells that's the current situation
just in the u.s. leak I know but that
all may change any day now since
scientists seem to have found a way to
grow functioning hearts in the lab most
human organs can regenerate their cells
after they experience some damage
that's just how incredible our bodies
are unfortunately this doesn't refer to
the heart if a person has a heart attack
the dead or damaged heart cells can't
regenerate instead they get replaced
with scar tissue and that's a serious
threat send such scar tissue neither
transmits electric impulses nor
contracts as a result the heart fails
that's why it's crucial to find a
solution to the problem of heart
transplants and scientists are so close
to saving the day in 2015 a group of
researchers from Harvard Medical School
and Massachusetts General Hospital
announced that they'd figured out how to
deal with the issue of organ shortage
besides that they'd also found a way to
reduce the chances that a patient's body
would reject a newly transplanted organ
the answer lies in human skin cells
which can regenerate human heart tissue
did you catch that heart cells from the
skin the researchers followed the
technique based on a detergent solution
to really simplify an incredibly complex
procedure they basically rid a donor
heart of the cells that could
potentially start an unwanted immune
reaction remember it's because of this
immune rejection that a patient's body
doesn't accept a transplanted organ the
researchers tested this method on 73
donor hearts the organs weren't suitable
for transplantation and therefore could
be used for research purposes first of
all the scientist stripped the hearts of
part of their cells after that they used
an innovated technique to turn adult
skin cells into special stem cells that
were capable of creating different cell
types
and since they can potentially become
any kind of cell though researchers turn
them into two types of heart tissue the
next step was to make sure that these
versatile cells didn't get rejected by
the rest of the heart for the following
two weeks the hearts covered with the
new cells stayed in a nutrient solution
on top of that the researchers put the
developing heart under the same
conditions it would be once inside the
body as a result in two weeks the
scientists got hearts with
well-developed structure and tissue they
looked exactly like any other immature
human heart and most importantly after
the scientists gave a shock of
electricity to the organs are you ready
for this they started to beat naturally
the final goal of this research is to
grow a full scale human heart
unfortunately up to this point
scientists haven't managed to develop a
working heart from a patient's own
tissues remember the hearts used in this
experiment were given to the researchers
because they couldn't be transplanted
plus there are some other issues
surrounding the structure of the heart
that scientists still need to perfect
but the fact of the matter is that this
organ can be successfully grown in the
lab there the cells can develop inside a
special structure the researchers do
currently have a plan that will help
them achieve their aim they want to
increase the number of versatile stem
cells after all a real full scale heart
will need tens of billions of them next
the scientists will try to find out how
to make these cells mature faster
because time is of the essence when it
comes to needing an organ transplant and
the final step will be to improve the
body like conditions in which the hearts
will grow the researchers are sure that
this approach will help them grow
customized hearts if it works patients
won't have to worry about their bodies
rejecting their own heart and that
bright siders is incredible news however
the heart isn't the only organ to be
grown in the lab scientists have already
successfully cultivated several
structures of the human body on top of
that they worked out how to grow
organoids
which are itsy-bitsy human organs
for example scientists from the Ohio
State University have grown a tiny brain
about the size of a pencil eraser this
organoid is genetically similar to the
brain of a five week old fetus believe
it or not all of its neurons function
correctly and everything in 2013 a group
of Australian scientists from Murdoch
Children's Research Institute and the
University of Queensland cultivated a
mini kidney from stem cells their first
organoid which was grown in a petri dish
contained just two types of cells but
the most recent attempt was more
successful the scientists developed an
organ similar to a normal human kidney
it contained all types of kidney cells
researchers hope that such organoids can
help in cell therapy disease modeling
and drug testing that same year
scientists at New York's Weill Cornell
Medical College managed to 3d print
human ears for the first time they
started by making a model of a child's
ear and then sent it to a 3d printer
after that they covered the frame with
living cells and the cells grew around
this model within just three months the
ear had developed its own cartilage a
tiny human stomach about 0.1 inches in
diameter took just a month to grow in a
petri dish
the lab-grown mini stomach looks
astonishingly similar to the real thing
dr. James M well from Cincinnati
Children's Hospital Medical Center is
sure that one day these mini stomachs
will help scientists understand the
complex processes going on in the human
stomach by studying it
researchers can figure out how the
stomach develops or what diseases can
strike it besides it'll get much easier
to understand the effects of gastric
diseases caused by different bacteria
can have on this organ researchers from
several universities collaborated and
grew 3d mini luxe these organoids had
both well-developed airway structures
and lung sacs the lungs functioned for
over three months according to the
study's lead scientist dr. Jason R
Spence from the University of Michigan
the mini lungs mimic the real tissues
response it means that with
our help researchers can examine the
changes that happen in the human lungs
when they're diseased
besides the organoids can show how real
lungs may react to particular
experimental drugs the largest internal
organ of your body which is your liver
can repair itself and regenerate tissue
when it's where it should be that is but
scientist experienced enormous
difficulties every time they tried to
cultivate it outside the human body it
was very hard to keep liver cells alive
but in 2015
researchers from Germany and Israel
managed to grow liver cells in the lab
they published their research in the
journal Nature Biotechnology so far it
isn't a real organ or organoid but they
do believe that the developed cells are
the first step to growing an actual full
scale liver and finally there's the food
pipe or esophagus if you want to get
technical it connects your throat with
your stomach at 8 inches long this organ
is relatively small you probably imagine
it like a hollow tube where food slips
down like a water slide
but that's not the case at all the
muscles of the esophagus have to work
hard they contract to move the food down
to your stomach so it's actually a
pretty complex organ but an
international team of scientists managed
to grow a working food pipe at ku-band
State Medical University in Russia
it took them a mere three weeks and they
used you guessed it stem cells to pull
it off the newly grown organ proved its
durability after the researchers
inflated and deflated it 10,000 times so
what do you think about growing human
organs in the lab share your thoughts in
the comments below remember to give this
video a like share it with your friends
and click that big red subscribe button
to stay on the bright side of life
[Music]
you